Security controls fall into three groups: Technical, Administrative, and Physical. 

# Physical security controls (Deterrents, access controls, monitoring controls)
Physical security controls prevent unauthorized access to a building or areas within. These controls help to make intrusion as hard as possible. The three main controls are deterrents, monitoring controls, and access controls. 

Ex.  Locked doors, security guards, CCTV, and barriers. 


Access controls can make it hard for unauthorized individuals to access protected areas. 

Monitoring Controls such as CCTV are useful for live monitoring and keeping a record of any malicious behavior so that it can be used in the event of prosecution. 

Deterrents are designed to deter people. 


# Network Security Controls (Firewalls, NIPS, NIDS, SIEM, NAC)

**Network Intrusion Detection**
NIDs come in the form of software or physical devices that monitor network traffic in order to generate alerts for human analysts to investigate. 

- Inline: The system running the NIDS software is sitting directly in the path of network traffic; in this  case, the system will, by definition, become a NIPS, as it can perform defensive measures such as blocking or resetting connections.

- Network Tap: NIDS will be connected to the network by tapping into a physical connection, such as a cable.

- Passive: The NIDS is connected to a SPAN port on a network device. This physical port allows all traffic passing through the device to be mirrored to the SPAN port, so the NIDS will get a copy of all network activity. 

The purpose of NIDS is purely to generate alerts so that human analysts can investigate and take action if needed. 

**Network Intrusion Prevention**
NIPS are able to automatically take defensive actions based on the activity that has been identified. NIDS can detect activity and generate an alert, but NIPS can detect activity and take action. 

**Log Monitoring**
Web Proxy logs:  This device processes web-based requests to the internet and will contain a list of sites visited by employees. 

Perimeter FIrewalls: If a malicious actor starts port scanning the organization, the perimeter firewalls will pick this activity up first as they get smashed with a request from the scanning IP. 

**Network Access Control**
NAC can work to prevent rogue or non-compliant devices from connecting to a private network. Security teams could require that any device connecting to the network needs the latest patches and security updates and must be running anti-virus. NAC can enforce this and not let devices connect to the network until they have met all requirements. 




# Endpoint Security Controls (HIPS, HIDS, EDR, Anti-Virus, SIEM)

**Host Intrusion Detection**
HIDS is software installed on an endpoint that detects suspicious or malicious activity using rules checked against activity to see if it matches any known malicious patterns. This will generate alerts for human analysts to investigate. 

**Host Intrusion Prevention**
HIPS is software installed on endpoints that work similarly to HIDS but can take autonomous actions to defend the system once the malicious activity has been detected instead of just alerting human analysts. Rules are written to search for specific activity patterns, but with HIPS, these rules contain actions so that software knows what to do when unusual activity is detected. 

**Anti-Virus Solution**
It should be deployed on all endpoints; this is a fundamental  security control that works to detect and remove known malware on the system. There are two types of anti-virus solutions. 

- Signature-based
The AV solution will use signatures, which are specific patterns of activity, to identify previously documented malware, either by removing the file, generating an alert, or quarantining the malware. 

- Behavior-based
This type of unconventional AV works to identify suspicious behavior by creating a baseline of normal activity and working to identify any deviations or anomalies that don't fit the baseline, as these could indicate suspicious or malicious activity. 

**Log Monitoring**
Endpoints can be configured to send logs to a centralized location, a SIEM platform, where this data is aggregated, normalized, and matched against a number of rules designed to detect and flag suspicious or unusual activity so security analysts can investigate it. Syslog to achieve this level of logging and monitoring by combining it with an SIEM platform

**Endpoint Detection and Response**
EDR agents is software that sits silently on endpoints and provides logging, monitoring, and reactive capabilities. Like HIDS and HIPS, EDR agents will report activity back to a platform similar to a SIEM, where analysts can investigate alerts generated by the EDR solution. These solutions will typically allow analysts to conduct investigations straight from the platform, see exactly what processes are running on the monitored system, and conduct in-depth investigations to analyze suspicious activity. EDR platforms can also be utilized to monitor for insider threats by closely watching exactly what certain users are doing. Combining this with other forensic-grade tools can retrieve specific information from a system, such as sites visited, messages sent, and programs run. 

**Vulnerability Scanning**
Routine vulnerability scans should be conducted against endpoints to detect misconfiguration, seucrity flaws, and vulnerabilites that could be exploited by an attacker to gain access to a system, execute malicious code, or cause a denial of service. 

- External scan: typically conducted by scanners in the cloud, can provide an organization with an attacker's view by seeing what systems and weaknesses are discovered on the internet-facing systems with security controls and firewall working.
- Internal scan: gives a more comprehensive view of the security posture of internal systems but does not necessarily reflect what an attacker would see unless they gained access inside the network and started vulnerability scanning from within. 


Scans can either be non-credentialed or credentialed, meaning that the scanner can log in to the systems with high privileges and collect a lot more information about configurations, program versions, and more. 

**Compliance Scanning**
Some compliance frameworks require endpoints to meet a minimum standard of security, and vulnerability scanners will often have profiles or pre-set setting configurations to look specifically for details that the compliance framework covers, allowing defenders to see if any systems do not meet the requirements. 


# Email Security controls (Spam filters, DLP, email scanning)

**Data Loss Prevention**
data leak prevention is a security control that prevents sensitive business or personal information from leaving the organization in an unauthorized manner. This data can be categorized as files, banking information, account credentials, or PII; for the purpose of this module, we are focusing on the application of DLP technologies to  email communication


Phishing is the number one attack vector for compromising organizations, leading to data breaches.

**Spam Filter** A spam filter is software that scans incoming emails to see if they have telltale signs of spam or malicious emails and prevents them from being delivered to employee mailboxes so that they don't fill up with junk or dangerous messages. 

DLP can monitor emails at different levels: 
- email body content
- email headers
- email attachments of various types.

**Email Scanning**
Typically phishing emails will contain either a malicious URL or Attachment; specially designed scanners will read the email header and body and work to identify malicious indicators either using patterns or signatures or blacklists of known malicious email senders, hashes, and domain names. When a suspicious email is detected, it is quarantined. 

**Security Awareness Training**
Security awareness training should be a mandatory program that new employees must complete by a set time. 


## AAA Control Methods
Authentication, Authorization, and Accountability: This security principle allows us to ensure that only allowed individuals are permitted access to IT resources to limit the impact of certain access-based cyber-attacks, such as account compromises. 

**Authentication**
This involves using some form of verification to confirm that the identity is correct. There are three different types of authentication. 
- Something you know:
also known as authentication by knowledge, is proving your identity using something that you can remember, such as a PIN code when using your bank card, a password when logging into a system, or a security question answer such as your pet's first name.
This is the easiest to implement. However, it is not secure, as passwords can be stolen. 

- Something you have
authentication by ownership proving your identity with a physical item that you have with you, such as an ID pass that uses RFID/RFC technology to let you through locked doors at work or even a set of keys to get into your house or car.

Keys can be stolen, so having a set of keys for a house doesn't actually prove that you own the house. THis is why you need a combination of AAA to have secure access controls. 

- Something you are
authentication by characteristic is one of the hardest controls to bypass because it is directly associated with an individual. This could be fingerprints, retinal scans, or face identification. 

To ensure strong authentication, it is recommended to use a combination of 2 of the three controls. 

**Authroization**
What is the authenticated user permitted to do? Using the principle of least privilege, we want to give individuals only the access they require to complete their jobs and nothing more. If we gave everyone unlimited access, if their account is compromised, then the attacker will have all of that access, too; by reducing employee access, we can restrict the access an attacker or insider threat could gain and abuse. 

**Accountability**
is the process of being able to identify what has happened and when which can be used as evidence during a security event or incident. 

Accountability helps to validate what happened, by whom and in some cases, can help uncover if this was the individual or if someone else used this identity to conduct malicious actions. 

**Conclusion**
By implementing AAA controls, an organization can restrict access to only known individuals and monitor their actions in case they need to be reviewed. 
