Threat hunters will analyze PCAPs and live traffic whilst hunting for advanced threats that are acting covertly within the network. This can include looking for unusual communications such as traffic on nonstandard ports, scanning activity, exfiltration, and more. A deep understanding of protocols, including custom or unexpected protocols and normal activity, is extremely important. 

SOC/Security Analyst: will be monitoring and responding to attacks over the network and needs to be able to differentiate normal activity from suspicious activity. They will likely observe and respond to part scanning vulnerability scanning, distributed denial of service attacks, and unusual network traffic cases every day. 

Incident Responders: Responders need to be able to identify, triage, and respond to an endless range of security incidents, and often, this will include some form of network analysis to understand connections between compromised systems internally or externally or malware beaconing out to a command-and-control server. 

Threat Simulation Specialist/Penetration Tester: Not only does this role involve the identification of open ports and running services, but these guys also need to know how to hide their traffic both externally and when they gain access to the network so they can pivot and move from system to system, hiding from network defenders. Understanding networking principles will help them effectively control systems remotely, and remain undetected by blending in with normal traffic. 
