Indicators of compromise, also referred to as IOCs, are methods of information sharing so that organizations can determine whether they have come into contact with similar attacks. These are some examples of common IOCs:

IP Addresses - If an IP is behaving maliciously, it can be considered an IOC. EX: if organization A is suffering from a DDOS attack by 5 IPs, they could tell organization B to look out for the 5 IPs that are attacking them, and they are now considered indicators of compromise. This means Org B can set up alerts for these IPs, so if they attempt to do the same thing, they can immediately block them if needed. 

Email Addresses - If an email address is sending out malicious emails, it can be considered an IOC. Ex:  Org A is targeted by a phishing campaign from the email address purelyanexample@google.mail.com. Org A can share this with other organizations and tell them to be on the lookout for emails coming from this sender. 

File Sizes Value - It's pretty unlikely that a large number of files will have the exact same number of bytes. If we have a piece of malware, we can see the file size and use this as an indicator to search through all files, looking for ones that match. 

MD5/SHA-1 Hashes - Hashing is a one-way cryptographic function that allows us to create a signature represented by a string value, known as a checksum. If the file is modified in any way, the hash value will be completely different. So, if we have two identical files on a system, and we know the hash of one, we can find the other using this value as an IOC. 

String - We can retrieve strings from a file and use them as an IOC for searching. In the below example: I have used the command strings on a random.exe file, which will output all human-readable strings to the terminal. When selecting an appropriate string IOC we want something that is not common, otherwise, we will detect too many false positives when searching. An example would be a piece of malware that contains the stirring OwNeD by #Lun4rSUAD; in this case, we would use Lun4RSqUAD as a string-based IOC as it is extremely unique. 

# File hashes
A hash is a unique string value that corresponds to the contents of the file. THey ar generated by hashing algorithms, such as MD5 or SHA256. If two files are exactly the same, the hash will match. But if even on character is different, the files will have unique hash values. 


# Mandiant IOC Editor
is a free tool that provides an interface for managing data and manipulating the logical structures of IOCs. FireEye, a threat intelligence company, has provided this tool for free to the public, and it's a great piece of software to learn about creating IOCs, which are essentially XML files that can capture diverse information about threats, including attributes of malicious files, characteristics of registry changes and artifacts in memory. Mandiant IOCe is only designed for Windows OS, so you'll either need to download a free Windows 10 disk image or use your host if you run Windows.



